---
title: "Watchtower Wildlife #1: The American Crow"
layout: post
tags: [birds, "watchtower wildlife"]
---

I have noticed recently that denizens of the Watchtower tend to overlook the non-human aspects of our ecosystem here on the moon. It’s a shame that the hard work of our ecologists, biologists, botanists, and other researchers is so often overlooked; every species here on the moon was carefully studied and selected for introduction based on carefully constructed ecological webs. So I’ve decided to start a series about the wildlife and fauna found around the Watchtower. I hope others may learn to appreciate the beauty of the intricate systems and wonderful organisms that surround us!

Today we will look at the American crow. Often considered an agricultural pest back on Earth, they pose no such threat within the Watchtower, which grows food primarily within tightly regulated greenhouses. As such, we were able to introduce them to the moon to use as a form of pest control. They are well-suited to human environments and are not domesticated, enabling an established population within the Watchtower to continue thriving with minimal intervention.

An omnivore, the American crow will eat all kinds of invertebrates, fruits, nuts, seeds, eggs and nestlings, and stranded fish. They also hunt small animals and can be found scavenging carrion or at landfills. Grains and crops are particularly favored, but outside protected agricultural areas, their best source of these foods are actually park goers! Because crows are so intelligent, if you keep a regular schedule, they can be taught to anticipate your arrival. They are also highly trainable, in the same manner as cats and dogs—peanuts make a good reward, if you so choose to invest in this endeavor.

In the wintertime, American crows are known to form large, communal roosts to stay warm. They return to the same areas year after year to form these roosts. On Earth, some particularly large roosts have upwards of a million crows, and have started attracting attention in urban areas for the noise and mess; here, you can enjoy their resting forms in peace, sound with the knowledge that we do not have a million crows. For those interested, there’s typically a roost of about fifty or so crows on the northern edge of the residential zones, and there’s also a slightly smaller one just beyond the southeastern perimeter of the laboratories.
I am pleased to note that the majesty and intelligence of these wonderful corvids has not gone fully unappreciated by our fellow moon dwellers. Several fringe religions have sprung up since the Watchtower’s founding, either centering crows or using them as a sacred symbol; I am told by some colleagues that the popularity of these religions seems to be positively correlated with the sales of bird feed and bird feeders, for any interested in tracking their movements.

Finally, to correct a common misconception I have heard being spread around as of late: we have not, contrary to popular belief, introduced any common ravens into the Watchtower. Though they too are highly adaptable and can be found in a large variety of habitats back on Earth, ravens are not generally fond of urban environments. Also, at the time of species introduction, the Watchtower’s waste management techniques would have led to an uncontrollable population boom, so we had to settle without. (This also means you can stop telling your friends you’ve seen a raven. American crows are big.)
